INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE h5r R PACKAGE

Currently, this package works and has been tested with >= hdf5-1.8.4
(we build with 1.8.8) on Mac OSX, Linux, and Windows. The package will
most likely work on most POSIX systems where R (>= 2.10) works. 

The hdf group (http://www.hdfgroup.org) provides binaries for common
platforms. Unfortunately, the binaries they provide for Windows
platforms are not compatible with R because they are based on
Microsoft's compiler. Therefore, we provide MinGw-based static
libraries to compile against. It is non-trivial to get a functioning
MinGW-based Windows binary. These binaries are available in the source
download at R-forge under the 'windows' directory.

Unix
----

To install, a working hdf5 installation must exist. This can be
downloaded at: http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html#hdf5

If the hdf5 libraries and header files are installed in standard
places (/usr, /usr/local) then the configure script should pick them
up and have no problem. If you have not installed hdf5 in a standard
place, but instead installed it in HDF5_HOME then you can install the
R package in the following way:

R CMD INSTALL --configure-args="--with-hdf5=$HDF5_HOME" h5r

If you install to a non-standard location like this, then you must set
your LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to contain the directory:
$HDF5_HOME/libs, otherwise, at run-time, there will be no means to
find the hdf5.so. 

WINDOWS
-------

The easiest way to get a working Windows version is to download the
pre-built version from CRAN. However, if a user wants to build from
scratch then they should directly download from the source repostitory
at: https://r-forge.r-project.org/projects/h5r/

That download will have pre-built static hdf5 libraries. One can then
just build using 'R CMD INSTALL h5r' 


HELP
----
Please contact jbullard@pacificbiosciences.com if you have any
questions.
